[ACCOUNT] New abuse handling process (#2762)
scaleway/docs-content: console/account/how-to/report-incident.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to report an incident
  description: This page shows you how to submit an abuse report and to indicate how the report will be processed.
content:
  h1: How to report an incident
  paragraph: This page shows you how to submit an abuse report and to indicate how the report will be processed.
tags: report incident
dates:
  validation: 2024-02-19
  posted: 2024-02-19
categories:
  - account
---

> <Message type="requirement">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Macro id="requirements" />

```

  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> </Message>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## How to report an incident

> 1. From your [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) or from the Scaleway website click the Report Abuse page. A form displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From your [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) or from the Scaleway website click the **Report Abuse** page. A form displays.
```

> 1. From your [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) or from the Scaleway website click the **Report Abuse** page. A form displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Scaleway [console](https://console.scaleway.com) or [website](https://www.scaleway.com/), click the [Report Abuse](https://console.scaleway.com/support/abuses/create/) page. A form displays.
```

2. Enter the IP address, domain name or URL of the source you want to report.
3. Enter the date of publication of the illegal content or the start date of the illegal behavior.
4. Enter the time of the publication of the illegal content or the time the illegal behavior started.
5. Select the type of abuse you wish to report in the drop-down box
    <Message type="tip">
      The different types of content or illegal behavior that can be reported are described in Scaleway’s [Abuse notice](https://www.scaleway.com/en/abuse-notice/).
    </Message>
    <Message type="important">
      Falsely reporting content or activity as illegal only to obtain its removal or to stop its distribution, is punishable by one year imprisonment and a €15,000 fine.
    </Message>
6. Enter your email address and name if required.

> 7. Describe what you have observed in as much detail as possible. Provide information such as logs, time zones, headers, the precise location and if applicable, the email addresses to which the content is made accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Describe what you have observed in as much detail as possible. Provide information such as logs, time zones, headers, the precise location and, if applicable, the email addresses to which the content is made accessible.
```

    <Message type="important">
      This description will be directly forwarded to our customer. Do not therefore include any confidential or personal information which you do not want them to have access to. 
      Scaleway denies all responsibility for the use which could be made by third parties of any information that you provided in this field.
    </Message>
8. Check the box confirming that you are submitting this report in good faith.
9. Once you have entered the information mentioned above, check the CAPTCHA form and click **Submit abuse report**.
    <Message type="note">

>       In case you encounter difficulties to submit an abuse, you can contact [Scaleway’s abuse team](https://www.scaleway.com/fr/contact-trust-et-safety/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      In case you encounter difficulties to submit an abuse report, you can contact [Scaleway’s abuse team](https://www.scaleway.com/fr/contact-trust-et-safety/).
```

Once you have submitted the [report abuse form](https://abuse.scaleway.com/), you will receive an email confirming its reception by Scaleway’s abuse team.

Scaleway’s abuse team will verify the exactness of the report, that all the necessary information has been provided for the report to be processed. They will also verify whether the report indeed relates to explicitly illegal behavior or content with regard to French regulations and the evidence and information you have provided. If your report meets the above criteria, it will be validated by the abuse team and sent to Scaleway’s customer so that the necessary corrective measures can be taken.

1. You will receive updates regarding the resolution of the abuse via the email address provided in the form if you provided one.
    <Message type="note">
      Should Scaleway’s customer not respond, or should the transferred report not be processed correctly, appropriate measures will be taken by Scaleway. These measures may vary from a simple warning to termination of all services of said customer.
    </Message>
2. If your report is rejected, you will be informed of the reasons why by email.
    <Message type="note">

>       * Repeatedly reporting the same practices or content forces the abuse team to carry out unnecessary actions which have a negative impact on their work. As such, it is counterproductive to massively report the same practices or content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * Do not repeatedly report the same practices or content, as it forces the abuse team to carry out unnecessary actions and negatively impacts their work.
```

>       * Massively reporting the same practices or content forces the abuse team to carry out unnecessary actions which have a negative impact on their work. As such, it is counterproductive to massively report the same practices or content.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about "massively" - maybe "repeatedly"?

Author: ```suggestion
      * Repeatedly reporting the same practices or content forces the abuse team to carry out unnecessary actions which have a negative impact on their work. As such, it is counterproductive to massively report the same practices or content.
```

>       * We would like to remind you that it is important to remain courteous when communicating with the abuse team. Abuse reports shall not contain any offensive, vulgar or threatening language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * Remain courteous when communicating with the abuse team. Abuse reports shall not contain any offensive, vulgar or threatening language.
```

>       * If you consider that your report has been unduly rejected, you contact Scaleway’s abuse team.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      * If you consider that your report has been unduly rejected, you can contact Scaleway’s abuse team.
```
